content/experience.md, before:

---
title: "Experience"
draft: false
layout: "experience"
---
My career path has been defined by a passion for pushing technological boundaries and delivering impactful solutions in Software Development, AI, and Data Science tooling.

Here is a story I like to tell about how my career started: I went from Jupyter user to Jupyter developer. During my time at grad school studying for PhD, I transitioned our lab from using Mathematica for data analsysis and fitting to Python + Jupyter. When working on a paper, I created the accompaning notebook on Colab, which showcased equation rendering, translation to code, computation and visualization of results. The paper ultimately got rejected, but the hiring manager was so impressed by the notebook, he offered me to build Jupyter-based Data Science platform for them!

As you'll discover, each role in my journey has been more than just a position—it's been an opportunity to solve complex problems and create meaningful technological advancements. From developing algorithms for FDA-approved medical device and building AI assistants and tools to designing, implementing and leading entire Data Science platforms each experience has built upon the last.

I was fortunate enough to have opportunity to work with and contribute back to open-source tools, especially around Jupyter. Python community is near and dear to my heart.

Take a look at my experience and reach out if you are interested in working with me

Commit message:

Update professional experience to reflect current role at Anaconda as Senior Software Engineer, enhancing contributions to the Jupyter ecosystem. Add company logo and refine personal description for clarity and focus on open source projects.

content/experience.md, after:

---
title: "Experience"
draft: false
layout: "experience"
---
My career path has been defined by a passion for pushing technological boundaries and delivering impactful solutions in Software Development, AI, and Data Science tooling.

Here is a story I like to tell about how my career started: I went from Jupyter user to Jupyter developer. During my time at grad school studying for PhD, I transitioned our lab from using Mathematica for data analsysis and fitting to Python + Jupyter. When working on a paper, I created the accompaning notebook on Colab, which showcased equation rendering, translation to code, computation and visualization of results. The paper ultimately got rejected, but the hiring manager was so impressed by the notebook, he offered me to build Jupyter-based Data Science platform for them!

As you'll discover, each role in my journey has been more than just a position—it's been an opportunity to solve complex problems and create meaningful technological advancements. From developing algorithms for FDA-approved medical device and building AI assistants and tools to designing, implementing and leading entire Data Science platforms each experience has built upon the last.

I was fortunate enough to have opportunity to work with and contribute back to open-source tools, especially around Jupyter. Python community is near and dear to my heart.

Currently at Anaconda, I continue this tradition by contributing directly to the Jupyter ecosystem, working on core projects and extensions that empower data scientists and developers worldwide.
